# Interstitial-1 Reflection

Main Message of the Module

	History is a series of stories told in different ways using a variety of mediums. History relies a lot on the consumer. History changes depending on how the consumer perceives the information.

Themes That Connect the Various Lectures/Presentations/Activities in Module 1

	One theme that can be seen through the module is that history is biased based on the perspective of the person writing the historical story. This can be seen in the example of Main Street at Disney Land that was discussed in class. The idea behind Main Street is to tell a story of the idealized storefront in the 1920s. This story is based on the way Walt Disney perceived the time, therefore, it is biased based on a white male perspective in the 1920s. This bias can also be seen in museums. Often the narratives within the museums are used in a way to support the authority of the museums.
Another theme that was seen through this module was that history evoked emotion in consumers. I experienced this while exploring the program Twine. The example of the trainwreck and end of the world Twine were used as tools to convey an event but allow the consumer to not only absorb the information but feel the effects of history. While working on my own Twine I was attempting to convey the feeling of survivors' guilt using the tragic events of 9/11. My idea and goal was to allow the consumer to feel how someone may have felt on that day. My Twine will go through a series of choices where they either go to work in the world trade center or call in sick and you face certain consequences based on which path you take. We also had a class discussion on experiences in public history that had an impact on us. A lot of students spoke about the emission into historical experiences. The emotions they felt during these experiences were the things they remembered. This pointed out the importance of storytelling in history and how technology can be used to immerse consumers in the experience.

Belanger’s Vision of a Game and How it Connects to the Themes in This Module

	Belanger views games as an assemblage. He sees games as a collection of things that fit together. He talked about how games can have a good history but also be propaganda. He gave the example of how historical games were funded by the military so often the military had a say on what was being put into the assemblage. This connects to the idea that storytelling is used to invoke emotion in consumers but is biased based on the creator and how they form the assemblage.

Most Surprising Thing About This Module

	The most surprising thing that really stuck with me through this mobile was a quote by Helene Hengemann in response to criticism she received on her writing. She spoke on the idea of originality. She claims that there is no longer such a thing as originality, it is just being creative and authentic in what you are producing (Kelly, T. Mills. 2014). I took this idea and started analyzing different historical stories. The first thing that came to mind when I did this was the new Jeffery Dahmer documentary. I have listened to many podcasts and watched other shows in this case, but each time I am still entertained and engaged. In each show or podcast, it is always the same information but they differ because of the creative vision of the creator of the content. I also analyzed the Vincent Van Hogh exhibit that was put up in Montreal. None of the art that was presented was original but it was the creative way of the painting being projected on the walls and floor that made it different. After this, I have been looking deeper at what creative aspects creators use and it has been fun and honestly inspiring.
